README.md, before:


# Transcode to Mp3 Stream PHP Library

Do you have a collection of audio files in non-mp3 formats? This package will
let you stream those files as Mp3s in an HTML5 audio player like
[audio.js](http://kolber.github.io/audiojs/) by transcoding them on the fly as
the user requests them.

It can create an mp3 stream from any media file that ffmpeg can read, including
video files.

## Status

Alpha. This package is not complete yet.

## Installation 

Add this line to your `composer.json` file: 

    "captbaritone/transcode-to-mp3-stream": "dev-master"

Then issue at the command line, in your projects directory:

    composer dump-autoload

## Usage

Assuming, you have the package installed via composer.

The only method you should need is `output()` on `Mp3Stream` object. It takes
the following arguments:

- `$sourceMedia` Path to the file  you wish to transcode
- `$outputFilename` The filename for the transcoded output
- `$kbps` The constant bitrate kits per second to encode the output with
- `$start` The point in the source where we want to start (in seconds)
- `$end` The point in the source where we want to stop (in seconds)

### Simple usage: 

    <?php use Captbaritone\TranscodeToMp3Stream\Mp3Stream;

    $mp3Stream = new Mp3Stream();
    $mp3Stream->output('example.flac');

## Example

See `example.php` for an example of how the script can be used.

If you have a new enough version of PHP, you could test it by issuing this in
your terminal...

    cd /path/to/transcode-to-mp3-stream
    php -S localhost:9000 example.php


...and then opening `http://localhost:8000` in your browser.

## Testing

In order to run the tests, you will need to install the dev dependencies:

    composer --dev install


Then you should be able to just run `phpunit`.

## Dependencies

We require shell access to `ffmpeg` as with the `lame` codec for mp3 encoding.
On Ubuntu, these packages do the trick for me. We also require a newish version
of `ffprobe` (which comes with `ffmpeg`). However, the current version of in
the Ubuntu repository is not modern enough. I'll update with more on that
later.

    sudo apt-get install ffmpeg
    sudo apt-get install libavcodec-extra-53

## Help/questions

If you have any questions, or get stuck please let me know:
jordan@jordaneldredge.com.

## License

This project is released under the MIT License. The example audio file is an
excerpt from the Creative Commons recording of J.S. Bach's Goldberg Variations.
You can find the whole recording, and more information at the [Open Goldberg
Variations] website.

[Open Goldberg Variations]: http://www.opengoldbergvariations.org/

Commit message:

Mark the poject as beta and and add email link

README.md, after:


# Transcode to Mp3 Stream PHP Library

Do you have a collection of audio files in non-mp3 formats? This package will
let you stream those files as Mp3s in an HTML5 audio player like
[audio.js](http://kolber.github.io/audiojs/) by transcoding them on the fly as
the user requests them.

It can create an mp3 stream from any media file that ffmpeg can read, including
video files.

## Status

Beta. This package is working, but may still have some kinks to workout.

## Installation 

Add this line to your `composer.json` file: 

    "captbaritone/transcode-to-mp3-stream": "dev-master"

Then issue at the command line, in your projects directory:

    composer dump-autoload

## Usage

Assuming, you have the package installed via composer.

The only method you should need is `output()` on `Mp3Stream` object. It takes
the following arguments:

- `$sourceMedia` Path to the file  you wish to transcode
- `$outputFilename` The filename for the transcoded output
- `$kbps` The constant bitrate kits per second to encode the output with
- `$start` The point in the source where we want to start (in seconds)
- `$end` The point in the source where we want to stop (in seconds)

### Simple usage: 

    <?php use Captbaritone\TranscodeToMp3Stream\Mp3Stream;

    $mp3Stream = new Mp3Stream();
    $mp3Stream->output('example.flac');

## Example

See `example.php` for an example of how the script can be used.

If you have a new enough version of PHP, you could test it by issuing this in
your terminal...

    cd /path/to/transcode-to-mp3-stream
    php -S localhost:9000 example.php


...and then opening `http://localhost:8000` in your browser.

## Testing

In order to run the tests, you will need to install the dev dependencies:

    composer --dev install


Then you should be able to just run `phpunit`.

## Dependencies

We require shell access to `ffmpeg` as with the `lame` codec for mp3 encoding.
On Ubuntu, these packages do the trick for me. We also require a newish version
of `ffprobe` (which comes with `ffmpeg`). However, the current version of in
the Ubuntu repository is not modern enough. I'll update with more on that
later.

    sudo apt-get install ffmpeg
    sudo apt-get install libavcodec-extra-53

## Help/questions

If you have any questions, or get stuck please let me know:
<jordan@jordaneldredge.com>.

## License

This project is released under the MIT License. The example audio file is an
excerpt from the Creative Commons recording of J.S. Bach's Goldberg Variations.
You can find the whole recording, and more information at the [Open Goldberg
Variations] website.

[Open Goldberg Variations]: http://www.opengoldbergvariations.org/
